So, wow, that was a lot of terminology.
XML, schema, minOccurs, maxOccurs.
It's time to to write some code.
That's what we're here for actually,
is to just write some code.
And this is the payoff.
Part of it is so that when I tell you
about this stuff and I say, oh and
there's an attribute, then you'll
know what you're doing. Okay?
And so it turns out that
XML is built into Python.
There's a lot of things
that are built into Python.
That's kind of why we love it,
that's why it's charming.
So let's take a look.
And hopefully you've got, at some level,
all the code downloaded for
this class in a little folder called code,
and you've got lots of files.
And if we take a look at xml1,
there's xml1.py.
So that's our little program.
Now what I'm doing in this program
is I'm actually not retrieving this
XML off the network. If you did you'd do
a sort of urllib and you'd do a read.
We learned all that in
the previous lecture.
So somehow you've got this XML
data in the form, in this case,
in the form of a string.
So that's the XML data.
It might have come from the Internet,
It might have come from a database,
which will be what we'll do next.
But somehow we've got this.
Now, this syntax,
if you haven't seen it, this is
what's called a triple quoted string.
And the start of the triple
quoted string is three quotes and
the end of it is three quotes.
And I'm using single quotes because
double quotes are actually part of XML.
So, this is just one big string
that goes from here to here.
Okay?
And the newlines are actually
part of the string.
Newline, newline, newline,
newline, newline.
It's just a quick way to have multiple
lines of data all in the same place, okay?
And so that is sort of my XML source.
Okay.
So that is the data.
But remember, this might come
from a URL or some other thing.
urllib or a GET, or
who knows what we might, but
we got our hands on it somewhere.
We might have even opened a file up,
and we're reading through the file and
find the XML in the file.
But this is just the XML that we've got.
The important part, it's in a string.
Now, you could use regular expressions,
you could use find operations.
You could look for a less than,
then you could look for the tag.
You could write some really
nasty code if you wanted to.
Please don't.
Because built in to Python
is a XML parsing mechanism.
Okay?
And so this is our import statement
pulling in this thing as ET
gives us kind of a shortcut to this
really long xml.etree.ElementTree as ET.
Just put this in and
then we'll just use ET as our way
to get at this functionality.
So this is sort of a library that
we're naming in this code ET.
And so all we do is we basically say,
hey, take this string data and
pass it into the element tree library.
And parse that string.
So this is the act of parsing.
It's like de-serialization.
De-serial, I can't write that.
De-serialization.
And that's, I don't know how I got this
XML, I don't know how it arrived on my
doorstep, but I want to make sense
of it inside of my application.
So we're de-serializing it.
The method inside the element
tree library is the fromstring,
where we say pass it in the string,
and we get back an object.
Now, I named it tree.
It makes sense to name it tree.
By the way,
this is just my text editor, so
you can ignore those little blue tildes.
So, tree is a variable.
I could have called this X for I care.
And it would be X and X.
But tree is kind of what it is.
And so what this does is it parses it and
gives us back an object.
And we can do things to that object to
actually look at the underlying data.
So this fromstring finds the less than,
finds this less than, finds that less than,
makes all these things, yadda yadda yadda,
and reads all this stuff.
You could write it, but you don't want to.
Right?
So you just do it.
So then what happens is,
go read the documentation on this.
And it basically says, you can take
this object that's returned, and
call various methods on that object.
And so what we're basically saying
is go find the tag of name.
And so, that.
This little bit of code right
here, tree.find of name,
gets this thing out of the XML.
Then that itself is an object and
we can say oh,
we would like the text of that thing.
So that looks inside this thing and
pulls that text out.
Okay?
Or we can say tree.find email.
That is this thing right here,
that's the tag.
This looks a lot like Beautiful Soup.
Remember, Beautiful Soup is
kind of a tree of HTML tags.
The difference is the tags in XML
are tags that we've defined, right?
Tree.find email, bingo.
And then .get is a method
that we can call.
We call the .get method, and
we look for the hide attribute,
which effectively pulls
this little yes guy out.
Okay?
And on and on and on and on and on.
And you can go read
the element tree stuff.
And so there is just, the whole thing
is parse or de-serialize the data,
get back an internal object that
makes sense inside of Python and
then start using that object to look for
things inside the XML.
And so
this is where the magic is all happening.
That's where all the hard stuff is
happening and the fun stuff is happening.
Let me just go run that.
python xml1
Oh, come back.
python, no, clear, escape.
python xml1
This is totally self-contained,
and it pulls out the name and
the attribute of that email thing.
So not too impressive but
it does what it was supposed to do.
Okay, so that's our first little
application that we're going to play with.
And so here's another one and this one is
now going to look a list of things, right?
And so sometimes you have a tag within
a tag within a tag, and there's some text.
And that was exactly what
we did in that last one.
We pulled out text and attribute.
But what we're going to do here
is we have a set of users, and
then there's little user elements.
And you'd think of this as
like dot dot dot dot dot.
There could be many of these things.
So we want to parse out
the users from within this.
The fact that I'm using plural and
singular,
it's very descriptive but
it has no meaning.
This could be X, it could be Y but
we tend to do it when we do XML,
when we have a tag that is expected to
have a bunch of the things of that.
We'll tend to use the plural name for
the tag and then the singular name for
each of the things in there.
So it's a really good common thing,
but don't get stuck on the notion that
somehow the world understands
plurals and singulars.
Okay?
So, don't get stuck on that.
So, here we go.
And so, what we're doing, again,
is we're using this triple quoted string,
so this again is the XML that
could've came from anywhere.
And then we're going to call fromstring,
we're going to pass in a string,
and we are going to get back a tree.
I named it stuff this time,
okay? So that is stuff,
is a, you could almost think of stuff as.
You know we've got stuff and
then under stuff we've got users and
then under users we've got
user user dot dot dot and
then under user we've got X
which is an attribute and
then we've got a thing that's ID.
And then a name.
And then Brent or one, and Chuck.
So this is like this
tree view of this stuff,
and so by calling fromstring, we are
reading this and producing this structure.
Now, it doesn't look that way
inside Python, it just is
something that you can now say, walk
down here and grab me all these things.
Because that's what's going on here.
Go down here and grab me all these things.
Okay?
And so, that right there of walk down and
grab all those things is what
this line does right here.
Stuff is that whole tree.
Findall users/user.
So that's a path, right?
users/user, it's really all of
these. There's going to be many
of these second thing.
Find everything that matches
that little users/user and
return me a Python list with one
entry for each of the tags.
So this turns into a,
this list ends up being
a Python array that
represents those two users.
And each user that you get in that
array represents the sequence.
So list ends up being a list of users.
And because it's a list,
we can say how many did we get?
In this case we should hopefully get two.
Then we can write a for loop.
Okay?
For item in list.
And the things that are in our list.
These are also XML nodes.
They're node objects, and so
they have like the ability to do find, and
pull the text out or find and
get attributes, right?
And so we do the same thing we did in
the previous thing where we say item but
really item is now this guy and we're
saying .find which means find this guy and
then .text, oops, well, sorry.
Do that better.
So, item is this.
Find of id gets this,
and then .text,
.text gets this.
So we're sort of, but now we're going to
do this inside of a loop so it's going to
do this as many times, over, and over,
and over, as many users as there are.
Okay?
And again, this is really simple,
and the XML I'll be giving you for
assignments is also really simple.
But you could also, at the end of the day,
even if this turned out to be super
complex, sooner or later you would
just kind of work together and
build a bit of Python code that would
pull the pieces that you're interested.
Because that's what you're looking for.
You're looking for like
a list of the people's names.
Okay?
so, let's take a look at this one.
This one's called xmlL2.py.
And if we take a look at vi xml2,
oh come back,
click xml2.py, there's that code.
Again, the triple quoted string and
the code we just showed you.
So if I run this, python xml2.py, boom.
Looped through, found the id,
found the attribute on that thing,
found the name, and
looped through and did it twice.
There were two users.
This was the first one, and
this was the second one.
Okay?
Now, again, the data that you're probably
going to be working with came from a file or
URL, blah, blah, blah,
but you get the idea.
And this is very simple, but from these
two basic patterns of looking down to
find a tag or
looking down to find a set of tags,
that's the two basic things
that you tend to do with XML.
And it's not too many lines of code to find
your way into even relatively complex XML.
So that sort of summarizes what
we're going to talk about for XML.
And XML was the hard stuff, but
next we'll talk about the fun stuff.
We'll talk about JavaScript
Object Notation next.